Results and Output
==================

Each time ATMOS-BUD is executed, it generates a comprehensive set of results organized within a newly created directory inside the `ATMOS-BUD_Results` directory. The `ATMOS-BUD_Results` directory is located in the same directory as ATMOS-BUD. The naming convention for each results directory is derived from the base name of the input file, appended with "_method", where "method" reflects the framework used during the run: either `fixed`, `track`, or `choose`, corresponding to the Fixed, Semi-Lagrangian, or Interactive frameworks, respectively.

### Directory Structure and Contents

Inside each results directory, you will find the following files and sub-directories:

- **CSV Files**: For each term analyzed by the program (e.g., average values of vorticity, temperature, humidity), a CSV file is generated. These files contain the calculated average values over the domain for each time step and each vertical level.

- **NetCDF File**: This file contains the spatial results of each term calculated by the program without averaging over the area. It provides a detailed view of the atmospheric conditions across the domain for each time step.

- **Track File**: Generated for the Semi-Lagrangian and Interactive frameworks, the track file is essential for replicability. It documents the system's track and the domain selection for each time step, allowing for adjustments in subsequent analyses.

- **Log File**: A log file captures the program's execution output, providing insights into the processing steps and any issues encountered.

- **Figures Directory**: Contains visualizations generated by the program, including:
    - `timeseries-min_max_zeta_hgt.png`: A time series plot showing the minimum/maximum vorticity and minimum geopotential height within the domain for each time step.
    - `track_boxes.png`: Displays the system's track and the areas of minimum/maximum vorticity. These figures are available only for the Semi-Lagrangian and Interactive frameworks.

- **Boxes Directory**: Available for all frameworks, this directory contains visualizations at 850 hPa, illustrating vorticity, geopotential height, and the chosen domain for each time step. It also indicates the positions of minimum/maximum vorticity, minimum geopotential height, and maximum wind speed. The program determines minimum or maximum vorticity based on the hemisphere, checking for minimum vorticity in the Southern Hemisphere and maximum in the Northern Hemisphere.

### Understanding the Output

The results and output generated by ATMOS-BUD are designed to provide a comprehensive overview of the atmospheric system analyzed. By examining the CSV and NetCDF files, users can gain insights into the quantitative aspects of the study. The track file enhances the analysis's replicability, while the log file offers a detailed record of the program's execution. The figures and visualizations in the Figures and Boxes directories serve as powerful tools for interpreting the data and understanding the atmospheric phenomena under investigation.
